LAB 2: Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Abstraction
● Task -1: Encapsulation
a. Create a class ‘Developer’ with private, public and protected
members. Create an object of that class and try to access each
member through that object. Explain the outcome
b. Create an object of class Account with one private, one
protected and instance methods. Manipulate both private and
protected methods inside the instance methods
c. Implement getter and setter methods using the normal function
and using property decorator.


● Task - 2: Polymorphism
a. Showcase method overloading in Python using default
arguments.
b. Create a base class and child class that showcase the method
overriding in Python.
c. Create a Python class named Point that accepts x and y
coordinates. Program it so that it mathematically adds the
coordinates together.
d. Create a base class Shape with methods area() and
perimeter() (initially without implementation) in the base class
then define two subclasses Rectangle and Circle that initialize
their respective dimensions and override these methods to
compute area and perimeter in the main program, create
objects of both subclasses and display the results of area() and
perimeter() for each object.

● Task - 3: Abstraction
a. What will be the outcome if we try to create an object of
abstract class? Demonstrate with code.
b. Demonstrate with an example code what will happen if we do
not implement abstract methods in child class.
c. Create an abstract class Shape with an abstract method named
perimeter. Create a subclass named Square that inherits the

abstract method and use it to calculate the perimeter of the
square.
d. Create an interface with two abstract methods perimeter and
area, create a subclass inheriting that interface and use it to
calculate area and perimeter of circle and rectangle.

● Task - 4: overload the * operator to perform different
multiplication
The same method should handle (scaler multiplication ⇒ (x, y) *
number), element wise multiplication((x1*x2 , y1* y2) and dot
products(x1*y1 + x2y2)